# OPTT Machine Learning Project
Applying machine learning techniques to analyse performance of stock ticker OPTT (Ocean Power Technologies Inc)

In this project, I will be practicing building Linear (OLS) Regression, Logistic Regression, Random Forest, XGBoost, and LSTM Network models to attempt to predict future stock performance of Ocean Power Technologies. 

Ocean Power Technologies "provides intelligent maritime solutions and services that enable safer, cleaner, and more productive ocean operations for defense and security, oil and gas, science and research, and offshore wind markets" (https://oceanpowertechnologies.com/about-opt/our-company/). The company was founded in 1894. 

The stock itself currently trades for less than a dollar, meaning it is classified as a "penny stock". It trades via the NYSE, and at the time of this project, the intraday market cap sits at around 72M. Traditionally, OPTT has been a risky investment, with shareholders often facing issues such as operating losses, share dilution, and minimial growth. 

I am choosing to analyse this stock due to the uncertainty of the stock's perfomance. Ocean Power Technologies recently signed a $6.5M contract with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to deploy their Power Buoys. The Power Buoys are intended to aid in maritime surveillance, using wind, solar, and wave energy to generate electricity. Some of this energy is stored in a battery on-board to provide back-up power if needed. This deal may mark the turn-around for OPTT's performance, and it is my goal to use machine learning, as well as sentiment analysis, to predict the future of the ticker. Unfortunately, it is not possible to use sentiment analysis in this specific scenario due to data-sparsity. This is most likely due to Ocean Power Technologies being both a penny stock - trading under $5 - as well as a micro-cap stock - market capitalisation between $50-$300 million. Furthermore, Ocean Power Technologies is a highly specialised, niche company which would further influence their limited media coverage. 
